Hello everyone, welcome back to another lesson with us here at EnglishPod, my name is Marco
My name is Katherine and that's us and that's us and today we're going to talk about
a very common situation when you when you're a couple when you have girls
Honey, come on. I want to go. Are you you're taking forever? All right, who takes
long? Like, do you take a long time to get ready to get dressed? Okay, I take longer to get
ready, but my boyfriend takes longer in general because he's like checking his email, playing
video games, like just, you know, we call it Lolly gagging. He's just like being kind of slow.
I'm the opposite. I usually, I usually start getting ready later. Like, if we have to leave
at nine, I'll start getting ready at eight thirty, but I'll be ready by nine because I take
a shower real fast, get dressed and I know what I'm going to wear and all my clothes are
ready. But on the other hand, my girlfriend takes forever to get ready and she's like,
oh, and then, you know, the hair. Girls have makeup and tights. But this is what I understand.
If we're supposed to leave at nine, why don't you start getting ready before? Never underestimate
me. I don't know. For a crass denation. Hey, it's not even about procrastination. Sometimes
it just takes longer to look good than other times. Right. Well, in this case, we're going
to be looking at a lesson where it's the opposite. The husband is taking a long time
to get ready and well, I don't think he has a very good fashion sense, right? He does not.
I'm going to learn what that phrase means in a minute here, but before we get going,
I've got a couple of words to preview to help you understand what's going on in today's
dialogue. Very cablory preview. All right. So, vocabulary preview today. We have two words.
The first one can be a noun or a verb to iron or iron. So, two iron basically means
to get the wrinkles out of clothes. And so, we use this iron is actually a metal. It's
a very important metal. And an iron is a machine that we plug in. We use it to get the
wrinkles, the lines out of our shirts and our skirts and everything. And so, it's actually
very important thing to make sure that you look nice and put together. Right. So, you use
an iron, two iron, your shirt or two iron, your skirt. And then we have sandals. My favorite
type of shoe. Mine too. Sandals. I have a friend who used to say she had claustrophobic feet.
Her feet didn't like to be enclosed spaces. So, she only wore sandals. So, these are open shoes,
open toe shoes, basically. You wear them at the beach. Or you wear them in the summer in
general. I'm wearing sandals right now. And you have different types of sandals like sandals
and flip flops, right? Flip flops. I think they're called that because they sound like
flip flops. Flip flops when you walk. All right. So, those are two words today. Let's
listen to the dialogue for the first time. And then we'll be back.
Honey, come on. We're going to be late. Honestly, you take long and getting ready the
night, too. I was drawing my hair and ironing my shirt. Can you come here for a sec? I need
your help. What is it? Why are all these clothes on the bed? I don't know what to wear.
Okay. Give me your opinion. Do you like the way this looks? The strap short sleeve shirt
with this checkered sweater. My lucky sandals. I like the cut and hemline of these shorts.
So, I think I'll wear these as well. Are you joking? But am I going to do with you? You're
going to a dinner party, not to the beach. Wear a shirt with a satire bought you and there's
Cordray pants. It's on the outside, so you can wear this coat. Flags, honey. You have such a great
fashion sense. Now, what am I going to do with my hair?
All right. We're back. So, um, interesting. This has been sound to the lot like a famous president,
I think. He did, but we'll get to that in a minute. Before we do talk about who this guy is,
I think it'd be a great idea to talk about some of these clothing terms because they're very useful
for when you want to go shopping and for when you're getting dressed. Language takeaway.
Okay. So, the first word that we have on language takeaway is stripeet. All right. You might have
heard that the American flag called stars and stripes. Stripes are those lines on clothing or on flags
that go up or down or left and right. Exactly. So, you have, if you have a striped shirt,
you have many lines on your shirt that are going up and down or left and right. Right.
And I say with fashion, lines that go left to right make you look better and lines that go up and
down make you look thinner and taller and taller. Very good. And now moving on, if it's summer
and you want to wear a shirt, you can wear a short sleeve to shirt. All right. This is important.
So, most people like to wear short sleeve shirts in the summer time because they're cooler.
And in the winter time, that means we like to wear long sleeve shirts. Okay. So, the sleeves are
basically the arms of the shirt. Exactly. You say short sleeve. Very good. And then we have a
checkered shirt or a checkered sweater in this case. Okay. So, checkered means there are
little squares on the shirt and usually one square is one color and the next square is another color.
So, it looks like a checkered board. Very good. Like a chest board. Exactly. And so, in this case,
we've got a guy who's trying to wear a striped shirt and a checkered sweater. That does not go
well to the right. No. Too much stuff happening. Too busy. Too busy. All right. And not only that,
but he wanted to wear shorts because he liked the cuts and the headline. Okay. These are actually
terms that we normally use with women's clothing because you could say I like the cut of this dress.
I like the the shape that it has. Very good. And hemline is the bottom of your skirt or your
trousers or your shorts. And hemline we could say my mother used to say this to me. The hemline is much
too high. Must be short. That skirt is not appropriate. Yeah. So, it's nice to have a hemline at the knee.
All right. So, the cut is the shape that the piece of clothing has like pants or skirts.
And the hemline would be the place where it ends, right? The skirt, for example. Like it
pretty much tells you the length of something. Very good. And now, well, and now the wife steps in.
She's like, no, you're not wearing this. She's telling you that she has to wear nice clothes.
And among those items is a silk tie. Okay. So, classic father's day gift. silk tie. I've given
this one a couple of times. A silk tie is a, you know, a neck tie along neck tie that's made of silk.
Silk is a very soft material, right? Very expensive as well. It can be especially Italian silk.
And I've always actually wanted to have silk sheets. Oh, see, I don't know. I feel like they
would get very warm in the summer. Yeah. Well, in the winter it would be awesome, but probably very
cold in the winter as well. Yeah, I don't know. Well, it's one of those things. And then
she's also telling them to wear some corduroy pants. Okay. So, it sounds like this might be a winter
dialogue because corduroy is not something you wear in the summer because it's very heavy and thick.
Corduroy actually is a fabric that that usually has these kind of ribs or or ridges. And so there's
like little lines in the fabric that make it quite thick and rough when you're almost not rough.
But they make it feel very unique when you touch it. Yeah, it's not smooth. It's a little bit rough.
The fabric. Very good. So those are all the the clothing items that we've looked at today. There's
a lot of them. And obviously we'll post a couple of pictures on on the side so you can see
so you can see better what a silk tie looks like or especially corduroy pants corduroy. Yeah.
All right. So let's listen to this dialogue. Again, we're going to slow it down a little bit and
then we'll come back and look at some of the phrases. Honey, come on. We're going to be late.
Honestly, you take longer getting really than I do. I was drying my hair and ironing my shirt.
Can you come here for a sec? I need your help. What is it? Why are all these clothes on the bed?
I don't know what to wear. Okay. Give me your opinion. Do you like the way this looks?
The strap short sleeve shirt with this checkered sweater. My lucky sandals. I like the cut and
hemline of these shorts. So I think I'll wear these as well. Are you joking? What am I going to
do with you? We are going to dinner party not to the beach. We're going to show it with a
set of tie-up or you and those corduroy pants. It's chilly outside so you can wear this coat.
Thanks, honey. You have such a great fashion sense. Now, what am I going to do with my hair?
All right. We're back. So now let's start with fluency builder. Fluency builder.
Okay. These are classic couple phrases. These are phrases you hear among couples. And the first one
is maybe more common to hear from the female end, but it's not unknown on the male end. So
we have this question. Do you like the way this looks? So while the person is saying
this, they would maybe be moving to the side a little bit like modeling it. Do you like the way
this looks? So basically you're saying, do you like what I'm wearing? Does it look good on you?
Does it look good? Exactly. You could also say, hey, I like the way this looks when you're
trying to buy something at the store. And so do you like the way this looks is a way for you to ask
the other person's opinion of how you look? And also another common phrase, especially with men who
have no fashion sense, the wife says, what am I going to do with you? Okay. This is an interesting
phrase and it needs some explanation, I think, because the meaning is, well, this is very difficult.
Right? So you're being difficult or, wow, you need some help from me. I'm going to help you.
Oh, am I going to help you this much or all the time like this? Right, because she's pretty
much saying he has no idea about clothing and fashion. So he's saying to her, what am she saying to him?
What am I going to do with you? I mean, you need so much help. Seriously. All right. So and
and the third phrase that we said with that we saw and we said at the very beginning is fashion sense.
Okay, so this is actually what the man needs help with fashion. He needs help with his fashion
sense because he has zero fashion sense. Right. And this is pretty much a way to say how much someone
knows about fashion or appearances. And so I can say, you know, oh, my friend Kathy, she has amazing
fashion sense. So she always looks good. Right. So combining colors appropriately or wearing the
right types of shoes, with the right types of clothing, etc. Fashion. Or even just being able to
wear things that are good on her or telling other people what's good on them. So fashion sense
is the ability to to identify fashion and look good and make other people look good. All right. Very good.
Let's listen to this dialogue for the very last time. And we'll come back and talk a little bit
more about fashion because it's a very interesting topic.
Honey, come on. We're going to be late. Honestly, you take longer getting what even I do.
I was drying my hair and ironing my shirt. Can you come here for a sec? I need your help.
What is it? Why are all these clothes on the bed? I don't know what to wear. Okay, give me your opinion.
Do you like the way this looks? The strap short sleeve shirt with this checkered sweater.
My lucky sandals. I like the cut and hemline of these shorts. So I think I'll wear these as well.
Are you joking? What am I going to do with you? You're going to do an apartment not to the beach.
Where are they shirt with the satin tie I bought you? And there's Cordray pants.
It's on the outside so you can wear this coat.
Thanks honey. You have such great fashion sense. Now, what am I going to do with my hair?
All right, we're back. You lived in Italy for a while. How is it fashion over there? Is it
extreme like we see on the runways because I honestly don't understand fashion?
Well, the thing about runways is that that's not how normal people dress. Well, yeah, that's what I
understand. Why do they have these fashion shows of people don't really buy these types of clothing?
Well, sometimes people like stores, for example, big stores, department stores will buy
fashions off of the runway and they'll kind of change them a little bit so that they're more
appropriate for normal consumption. That means for normal people who want to wear them.
But the runway fashions are actually they're kind of like exaggerations of trends that will happen
in the shopping world, right, in the commercial world. So the things that you see are like
big blown up exaggerations and we take bits and pieces of those in our daily lives to dress up.
So different colors or fabrics or like oftentimes you see kind of military outfits and so that
will translate into military jackets that are very popular one one season. And so Italy definitely
counts as a very fashionable country, but it's not crazy people. Every once in a while you see
some more crazy clothes, but I think Japan is much more crazy. Yeah, actually Asian countries such
as Japan or South Korea, they have very also unique fashion as well, but it's very
extreme to a certain point. And the color combinations they do is like red sneakers with green pants
and like a blue jacket. It's very crazy. Right. And you often see these shoes, you know, we call them
platform shoes. They're it's kind of like you're standing on a brick. And they're you know,
they're seven inches tall. And you see these little girls when these big shoes and I just I'm so
scared when I see them because I feel like they're going to fall over. The other thing is that fashion
is so expensive if you actually want to buy something that's in like an authentic kind of linear
radar or Oscar de la reinta or something like that, it's so expensive. It is, but you know, high fashion
is expensive. Fashion is not. Doesn't have to be. You can you can be fashionable just looking at
different stores and going to secondhand shops and making your own clothes. I mean, it's all about
a sense of personal style and dressing yourself to be unique. Or you can get at the fake market.
Or you can go to the fake market, exactly. All right. That's all the time we have for today, guys. I hope
you enjoyed this lesson. Please come to a website and comment at EnglishPod.com. And if you
have any other suggestions or maybe your own pictures of crazy fashion, you can post where
glad to see them. So we'll see you guys there. Yeah, as Marcos said, hope to see you on the website.
That's about it for today. So goodbye everyone. Bye.